# API reference

<!-- This file is automatically generated. Do not edit by hand. -->

## Global dictionary

---

### !=

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the two topmost values of the stack are not equal.

---

### -inf

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the value of negative infinity onto stack.

---

### 2drop

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
</dl>

Discards the two topmost values from the stack.


    1 2 3 2drop #=> 1

---

### 2dup

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, any, any, any</dd>
</dl>

Duplicates two topmost values of the stack.


    1 2 2dup #=> 1 2 1 2

---

### =

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the two topmost values of the stack are equal.

---

### >boolean

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Converts the topmost value of the stack into a boolean. Null and false
will become false while everything else will become true.

---

### >source

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Converts the topmost value of the stack into a string that most accurately
represents what the value would look like in source code.

---

### >string

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Converts the topmost value of the stack into a string. Null will become
an empty string.

---

### args

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array<string></dd>
</dl>

Returns command line arguments given to the interpreter as an array of
strings.

---

### array?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is an array.

---

### boolean?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is a boolean.

---

### clear

Clears the entire stack of current context.

---

### compile

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>quote</dd>
</dl>

Compiles given string of source code into a quote.

---

### const

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, string</dd>
</dl>

Declares given value as constant in the current context with name
identified by given string.

---

### depth

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Pushes current depth of the stack onto stack.

---

### drop

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
</dl>

Discards topmost value from the stack.


    1 drop #=> empty stack

---

### dup

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
</dl>

Duplicates the topmost value of the stack.


    1 dup #=> 1 1

---

### e

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Pushes Euler's number onto stack.

---

### emit

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Outputs given Unicode code point into the standard output stream. Range
error will be thrown if the given number is not a valid Unicode code
point.

---

### error?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is an error.

---

### false

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the boolean value false onto stack.

---

### globals

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
</dl>

Returns the global dictionary as an object.

---

### if

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>boolean, quote</dd>
</dl>

Executes quote if the boolean value is true.

---

### if-else

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>boolean, quote, quote</dd>
</dl>

Calls first quote if boolean value is true, second quote otherwise.

---

### import

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Imports module from given path and adds all of its exported words into
this execution context.

---

### inf

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the value of positive infinity onto stack.

---

### locals

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
</dl>

Returns the local dictionary of current execution context as an object.

---

### nan

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the value of NaN (not a number) onto stack.

---

### nip

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
</dl>

Drops the first value and pushes the second value onto stack.


    1 2 nip #=> 2

---

### nop

Does nothing. Can be used to construct empty quotes.

---

### now

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Returns the number of seconds that have elapsed since the  Unix epoch
(1 January 1970 00:00:00 UTC) rounded to the nearest integer.

---

### null

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>null</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the null value onto stack.

---

### null?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is null.

---

### number?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is a number.

---

### object?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is an object.

---

### over

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, any, any</dd>
</dl>

Copies second topmost value of the stack into topmost value of the
stack.


    1 2 over #=> 1 2 1

---

### pi

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the value of pi onto stack.

---

### print

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
</dl>

Prints topmost value of the stack to stdout.

---

### println

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
</dl>

Prints the topmost value of the stack to stdout with a terminating new
line.

---

### proto

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, object</dd>
</dl>

Retrieves proto of the topmost value. If the topmost value of the stack
is null, null will be returned instead.

---

### quote?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is a quote.

---

### range-error

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string|null</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
</dl>

Construct an instance of range error with given optional error message
and places it on the stack.

---

### rot

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, any, any</dd>
</dl>

Rotates the three topmost values on the stack.


    1 2 3 rot #=> 2 3 1

---

### string?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the topmost value of the stack is a string.

---

### swap

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
</dl>

Swaps positions of the two topmost values on the stack.


    1 2 swap #=> 2 1

---

### true

<dl>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Pushes the boolean value true onto stack.

---

### try

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, quote</dd>
</dl>

Executes first quote and if it throws an error, calls second quote with
the error on top of the stack.

---

### try-else

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, quote, quote</dd>
</dl>

Executes first quote and if it throws an error, calls second quote with
the error on top of the stack. If no error was thrown, third quote will
be called instead.

---

### tuck

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, any, any</dd>
</dl>

Copies the topmost value of the stack as the third topmost value of the
stack.


    1 2 tuck #=> 2 1 2

---

### type-error

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string|null</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
</dl>

Construct an instance of type error with with given optional error
message and places it on the stack.

---

### typeof

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any, string</dd>
</dl>

Returns name of the type of the topmost value as a string.

---

### unknown-error

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string|null</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
</dl>

Construct an instance of unknown error with with given optional error
message and places it on the stack.

---

### value-error

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string|null</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
</dl>

Constructs an instance of value error with given optional error message
and places it on the stack.

---

### while

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, quote</dd>
</dl>

Executes second quote as long as the first quote returns true.

## array

---

### !

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, number, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Sets value in the array at given index. Negative indices count backwards
from the end. If the index is larger than the number of elements in the
array, the value will be appended as the last element of the array.

---

### &

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Set intersection: Returns a new array containing unique elements common to
the two arrays.

---

### *

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Repeats the array given number of times.

---

### +

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Concatenates the contents of two arrays and returns the result.

---

### @

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, any</dd>
</dl>

Retrieves a value from the array at given numerical index. Negative
indices count backwards from the end. If the given index is out of bounds,
arange error will be thrown.

---

### every?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether all elements in the array satisfy the provided testing
quote.

---

### extract

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any...</dd>
</dl>

Extracts all values from the array and places them onto the stack.

---

### filter

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Removes elements of the array that do not satisfy the provided testing
quote.

---

### find

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, any|null</dd>
</dl>

Returns the first element from the array that satisfies the provided
testing quote. Otherwise null is returned.

---

### find-index

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, number|null</dd>
</dl>

Returns the index of the first element in the array that satisfies the
provided testing quote. Otherwise null is returned.

---

### for-each

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
</dl>

Runs quote once for every element in the array.

---

### includes?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Searches for given value in the array and returns true if it's included
and false if it's not.

---

### index-of

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, number|null</dd>
</dl>

Searches for given value from the array and returns its index in the array
if it's included in the array and null if it's not.

---

### join

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Concatenates all elements from the array into single string delimited by
the given separator string.

---

### length

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, number</dd>
</dl>

Returns the number of elements in the array, while keeping the array on
the stack.

---

### map

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Applies quote once for each element in the array and constructs a new
array from values returned by the quote.

---

### pop

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, any</dd>
</dl>

Removes last element from the array and places it onto the stack.


    [1, 2, 3] pop  #=> [1, 2] 3

---

### push

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Constructs new array where first value has been pushed as the last element
of the existing array.


    4 [1, 2, 3] push  #=> [1, 2, 3, 4]

---

### reduce

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>any</dd>
</dl>

Applies given quote against an accumulator and each element in the array
to reduce it into a single value.

---

### reverse

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Reverses the array. The first array element becomes the last and the last
array element becomes first.

---

### some?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether any element in the array satisfies the provided quote.

---

### uniq

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Removes duplicate elements from the array.

---

### |

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>array, array</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>array</dd>
</dl>

Set union: Returns a new array by joining the two given arrays, excluding
any duplicates and preserving the order of the given arrays.

## boolean

---

### and

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>boolean, boolean</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Logical AND. Returns true if both values are true.

---

### not

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Negates given boolean value.

---

### or

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>boolean, boolean</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Logical OR. Returns true if either one of the values are true.

---

### xor

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>boolean, boolean</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Exclusive OR.

## error

---

### code

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>error, number</dd>
</dl>

Returns error code extracted from the error in numeric form.

---

### message

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>error, string|null</dd>
</dl>

Returns error message extracted from the error, or null if the error does
not have any error message.

---

### throw

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>error</dd>
</dl>

Sets given error as current error of the execution context.

## number

---

### %

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Computes the floating-point remainder of the division operation between the
two given numbers.

---

### *

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Performs multiplication on the two given numbers.

---

### +

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Performs addition on the two given numbers.

---

### -

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Subtracts the second number from the first and returns the result.

---

### /

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Divides the first number by the second and returns the result.

---

### <

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the first number is less than the second one.

---

### <=

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the first number is less than or equal to the second one.

---

### >

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the first number is greater than the second one.

---

### >=

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if the first number is greater than or equal to the second
one.

---

### abs

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Returns absolute value of the number.

---

### ceil

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Computes the smallest integer value not less than given number.

---

### clamp

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Clamps the topmost number between the minimum and maximum limits.

---

### finite?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>num</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if given number is finite.

---

### floor

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Computes the largest integer value not greater than given number.

---

### in-range?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the topmost number is in range of given minimum and maximum
numbers.

---

### max

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Returns maximum of two numbers.

---

### min

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Returns minimum of two numbers.

---

### nan?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Returns true if given number is NaN.

---

### round

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Rounds given number to nearest integer value.

---

### times

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, number</dd>
</dl>

Executes a quote given number of times.

## object

---

### !

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, string, object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
</dl>

Constructs a copy of the object with new named property either introduced
or replaced.

---

### +

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>object, object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
</dl>

Combines the contents of two objects together and returns the result. If
the two objects share keys the second object's values take precedence.

---

### @

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string, object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object, any</dd>
</dl>

Retrieves the value identified by given string from properties of the
object. If the object does not have such a property, range error will be
thrown. Notice that inherited properties are also included in the search.

---

### has-own?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string, object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the object has own property with given identifier. Inherited
properties are not included in the search.

---

### has?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string, object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the object has property with given identifier. Notice that
inherited properties are also included in the search.

---

### keys

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object, array</dd>
</dl>

Retrieves all keys from the object and returns them in an array. Notice
that inherited properties are not included in the list.

---

### new

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any...</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
</dl>

Constructs a new instance of the object and invokes its constructor if it
has one with the newly constructed object pushed on top of the stack.

Type error will be thrown if the object has no "prototype" property.

---

### values

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>object</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>object, array</dd>
</dl>

Retrieves all values from the object and returns them in an array. Notice
that inherited properties are not included in the list.

## quote

---

### call

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote</dd>
</dl>

Executes the quote taken from the top of the stack.

---

### compose

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote, quote</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>quote</dd>
</dl>

Constructs a new quote which will call the two given quotes in sequence.

---

### curry

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>any, quote</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>quote</dd>
</dl>

Constructs a curried quote where given value will be pushed onto the stack
before calling the original quote.

---

### negate

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>quote</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>quote</dd>
</dl>

Constructs a negated version of given quote which negates the boolean
result returned by the original quote.

## string

---

### *

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Repeats the string given number of times.

---

### +

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string, string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Concatenates the contents of the two strings and returns the result.

---

### >number

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>number</dd>
</dl>

Converts string into a floating point decimal number, or throws a value
error if the number cannot be converted into one.

---

### @

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>number, string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, string</dd>
</dl>

Retrieves a character at given index. Negative indices count backwards
from the end of the string. If given index is out of bounds, a range error
will be thrown.

---

### capitalize

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Converts the first character of the string into upper case and the
remaining characters into lower case.

---

### chars

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, array</dd>
</dl>

Extracts characters from the string and returns them in an array of
substrings.

---

### length

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, number</dd>
</dl>

Returns the length of the string.

---

### lines

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, array</dd>
</dl>

Extracts lines from the string and returns them in an array.

---

### lower-case

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Converts the string into lower case.

---

### lower-case?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the string contains only lower case characters. Empty strings
return false.

---

### reverse

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Reverses the string.

---

### runes

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, array</dd>
</dl>

Extracts Unicode code points from the string and returns them in an array
of numbers.

---

### space?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the string contains only whitespace characters. Empty strings
return false.

---

### swap-case

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Turns lower case characters in the string into upper case and vice versa.

---

### trim

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Strips whitespace from the begining and the end of the string.

---

### trim-left

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Strips whitespace from the begining of the string.

---

### trim-right

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
</dl>

Strips whitespace from the end of the string.

---

### upper-case?

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, boolean</dd>
</dl>

Tests whether the string contains only upper case characters. Empty strings
return false.

---

### words

<dl>
  <dt>Takes:</dt>
  <dd>string</dd>
  <dt>Gives:</dt>
  <dd>string, array</dd>
</dl>

Extracts white space separated words from the string and returns them in
an array.

